IBX-4651 Cart description, API, cart permissions (#1866)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/commerce/cart/cart_api.md

---
description: Use PHP API to work with carts in Commerce, manage cart entries, or validate products.
edition: commerce
---

# Cart API

!!! tip "Cart REST API"

    To learn how to manage carts with the REST API, see [REST API reference](../../api/rest_api/rest_api_reference/rest_api_reference.html#managing-ecommerce-carts).

> To get carts and work with them, use the `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cart\CartServiceInterface` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get carts and work with them, use the `Ibexa\Contracts\Cart\CartServiceInterface` interface.
```

`CartService` uses two storage methods and handles switching between storages:

- carts of registered users use database-based storage
- anonymous user carts are stored in the PHP session

> From the developer's perspective, carts and entries are referenced with the UUID identifier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the developer's perspective, carts and entries are referenced with a UUID identifier. 
```

> Numeric ID is used internally with database access optimization in mind but it is not used by the public API.

Reviewer: Is this relevant for the readers, or an implementation detail?

and the cart should recalculate all item prices to a new currency. 
To update cart metadata, use the `CartServiceInterface::updateCartMetadata` method:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 6, 7) =]]
// ...

[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 85, 92) =]]
```

## Delete cart

To delete a cart permanently, use the `CartServiceInterface::deleteCart` method 
and pass the `CartInterface` object:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 66, 67) =]]
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 126, 127) =]]
```

## Empty cart

To remove all products from the cart in a single operation, use the 
`CartServiceInterface::emptyCart` method:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 66, 67) =]]
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 94, 95) =]]
```

## Check cart validity

Items in cart can become invalid, for example, when item price is unavailable 
in cart currency, or the product is no longer available. 

> To prevent checking out cart with invalid items, check cart validity first. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent checking out a cart with invalid items, check cart validity first. 
```

To  validate the cart, use the `CartServiceInterface::validateCart` method. 
Validation is done with help from the `symfony/validator` component, and the method 

> returns the `Symfony\Component\Validator\ConstraintViolationListInterface` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returns an `Symfony\Component\Validator\ConstraintViolationListInterface` object.
```

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 66, 67) =]]
[[= include_file('code_samples/api/commerce/src/Command/CartCommand.php', 97, 98) =]]
```

## Add entry to cart

> To add entries (products) to the cart, encapsulate the product in `Ibexa\Contracts\Cart\Value\EntryAddStruct`, where you specify the requested quantity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add entries (products) to the cart, create an `Ibexa\Contracts\Cart\Value\EntryAddStruct`, where you specify the requested quantity of the product.
```
